 
BEFORE THE HON'BLE DISTRICT CONSUMER DISPUTES REDRESSAL FORUM 
at .................................. 
COMPLAINT No.__________ OF......…..................... 
IN THE MATTER OF: 
(Name and address of the complainant)  
Versus 
(Name and address of the opposite party or parties) 
 
COMPLAINT UNDER SECTION 12 OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT, 1986 
Respectfully Submit as Under: 
1. INTRODUCTION. 
Give the bare details of the complainant (consumer) and that of the opposite party/parties. These include 
Name, Address and the nature of firm and their business. 
2. TRANSACTION 
Here the complainant should give the details of transaction, the nature and particulars of the goods and 
services that were purchased, the date of purchase, the amount paid in full or part or promised to be paid 
in consideration. This should be supported by photocopies of the bill, receipt, voucher which should be 
attached with complaint as annexures. 
3. NATURE OF COMPLAINT 
In this section, the consumer should clearly spell out his grievance with the transaction. Whether the 
trader resorted to unfair or restrictive trade practices. Or if there is some defect in the goods purchased 
or there has been deficiency in service provided. Or the consumer was charged a higher price than what 
was agreed or fixed etc. The complainant should elucidate his grievance in detail. He should also support 
his contention with proof or evidence. All such documents should be attached as annexures. 
4. HISTORY OF ATTEMPTS FOR REDRESSAL 
This is an important part of the complaint. Here the complainant should enumerate the various attempts 
and efforts undertaken by him to get his grievance resolved. So the details of correspondence with the 
trader or manufacturer, the personal visits if any should be highlighted in this section, with documents 
and evidence. Again these proofs should be attached. 
5. RELIEF SOUGHT 
Under this the Consumer should list the nature of relief sought for the grievance. There are many options 
such as replacement of goods, compensation for financial loss, depending on the circumstances of the 
case. 
6. PRAYER 
The final submission by the complainant to the honourable forum on what the complainant requests from 
the Court in addition, and including the relief sought under the earlier paragraph. 
  
PLACE :                                                                    Signature of the complainant  
DATED :                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
